Agent-Native Apps

https://every.to/guides/agent-native?source=post_button

https://every.to/chain-of-thought/opus-4-5-collapsed-six-months-of-development-work-into-one-week



GPT wrappers are Dead. Here’s What’s Replacing Them in 2026 - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UaBZZfI3zsY

Transcript:

(00:43)  So I know you're asking the question because of the kind of clickbaity title  if gbt wwrappers are dead then what replaces them and what i want to break down is i'm going to  break down this this x post i saw because this was really the inspiration for this video and i want  to break down exactly what might be replacing gbt wrappers in the future of software and why this is  really important to understand if you are interested in building software going into 2026. This is not necessarily to say that all
(01:10)  GPT wrappers or all AI wrappers are dead, but that we're moving towards a different paradigm in  software. Now this is a long way out before it becomes completely ubiquitous. These things take  a little bit of time to actually filter through but let's  dig into this tweet from Dan Shipper over at Every.
(01:31)  I wish I would recommend checking out Every if you  don't know Every. They do some incredible write-ups and they have some incredible software tools  on the latest changes in AI but basically he's written something here just explaining that they  are only building agent native apps at Every now. So in this video I want to break down what  is an agent native app, what is an agent wrapper, basically an agent wrapper is  what will eventually replace GPT wrappers in software I think, and what is  an agent native app and how you can get started building one and how you can
(01:58)  start thinking about the next wave of software as we get into a world where  you can kind of build any application using AI coding  tools. So agent native apps, traditional software architecture, you write code that defines what  happens, the computer executes your instructions, and then the user basically goes in and uses,  clicks on the buttons and enters information in the forms and does all of the stuff in the  application that the user wants to be able to do. Agent native architecture is defining outcomes
(02:26)  in natural language. The agent figures out how to achieve them using tools in an agent native world  features are prompts and not code. And now I think this is a little bit abstract and obscure to kind  of understand. It got a lot of attention here, 102,000 views as of the time of filming this.  But what this basically means, and I think this is maybe  the biggest software opportunity of 2026 what this basically means is that your application  that you're building should basically be designed for AI agents to be able to use them as well as
(02:57)  humans and so I want to break down the difference between GPT wrappers and agent wrappers and so  the future of software is going to be agent wrappers and agent wrappers. And so the future of software is gonna be agent wrappers  and agent native applications.  What are they and how do you build them?  And I think one of the big things driving this change  is the Claude Agent SDK,  which is basically Anthropix development kit  for building AI agents and agentic applications.
(03:23)  And it allows you to effectively create a  wrapper around the Claude agent or Claude code basically and then use that  inside of your own application and at the end of this video I'm going to demo  you an agent native application that I am building myself as well at the moment  to show you the kind of thing and like how this actually looks when you're  using the application so traditional SAS and GBT wrappers are basically an interactive UI where you sign into the application, you click on  buttons, you enter text into forms, you do a set of actions and you're provided a
(03:56)  set of tools to use within that application basically. They're designed  for human use and they have a subscription based pricing because  it's up to you how much you interact with it or don't interact with it. Agent wrappers on the other hand is basically where the  user interacts primarily with an agent and then the agent interacts with the tools or the application  instead of the user and then the user is basically managing that agent to go and use that set of  tools to perform a certain task is applications
(04:27)  that are designed for both agent and human use or just agent use primarily you could totally build  a software that is just designed to be used by an AI agent like Claude code and generally will  be based on usage based pricing which means that you're paying depending on the amount of AI usage that  you actually want to use in that software.
(04:51)  So what is an agent wrapper? Well, I think there are three  levels of agent wrapper kind of style applications. Level one is basically where an app has an agent  inside of it, where the agent can use that tool, can use the application as well. And you might think of this as like an  existing software application, which has like an agent running alongside of it.
(05:12)  So think about  Notion or Slack, where maybe they have an agent like inside of Slack or inside of Notion that can  actually do everything in Notion that you would do. And so that is the next step up from SaaS or  GPT wrappers is basically having an agent inside of your application that can do and use all of the tools within that application already and all of the UI and all of the features that you can do in it.
(05:36)  Level two is about building an app as an agent.  So building an agent primarily where the user never interacts with the app tools but can see them.  agent primarily where the user never interacts with the app tools but can see them so the only thing happening is that the agent is interacting with the entire app and the user never really  kind of looks at the app or never interacts with the app but they can see what's happening and I  think there are going to be applications and software that exists that are successful across
(06:00)  all of these levels by the way so I don't necessarily think that everything is going to go  a certain direction I think there are still going to be a bunch of GPT wrappers that are super useful  they're not going to be entirely dead there's going to be a bunch of different applications  at all of these levels that are successful it's about finding the right architecture for you  and thinking from an agent first point of view if you are building the software and then level three  is basically an agent that builds and maintains its own tools
(06:25)  based on what its purpose goals and context are so you could think about this as having an agent  like claude code where as you're prompting it to do certain tasks it's actually building an  application behind the scenes to just do that for you so at the moment if you if i think about the  way that i create a lot of my posts for X is I use a set of post  kind of frameworks that I have saved.
(06:52)  I use transcripts from my video content like this  and I get AI to write me a bunch of different posts and then I edit and filter them and post  the best ones that I think from those posts that AI has written out for me. That saves me a ton of time and you could imagine an AI agent  in this instant building that piece of software for itself to use behind the scenes and then using  that to complete that task for the user, if that that is the best way of the agent actually going  and doing that. And so that level three is about the agent building the software behind the scenes
(07:24)  based on its own purpose, goals and context.  Now that we've broken down what an agent native application is, what an agent wrapper is,  I want to show you an example of an application that I'm building at the moment called Scribe,  which is basically and this is just cursor here that I'm showing you with Claude Code running.
(07:42)  And this is basically an example of like a level one  agent application an agent wrapper basically so you can see in the in the application here I've  got this canvas where you can add different documents to I'm just like adding a bunch of  test documents here I can click here and I can create a new document on this canvas that's great  that's like a traditional kind of application interaction kind of pattern but what I can also do here is I can use the agent in this app and this is built  using the Claude agent SDK you can see here in this message so I basically said let's create a
(08:17)  brand strategy for this project there was a couple of times where it didn't work before as I'm kind  of trying to figure this out and build it myself and after I I said, let's create a brand strategy for this project,  basically the Claude agent said,  I'll create a comprehensive brand strategy for Scribe.
(08:30)  And then it created a new document on the canvas for me.  So I went back to the canvas and it created this brand strategy document here,  which if I go into edit that,  you can see it's got a full brand strategy here for this project.  And I also have an agent in here inside of the  document which can make detailed changes to this document as well so can you break down the target  audience in this document into three key personas and then it went ahead and it wrote out persona  one persona two and persona three instead of just having one persona that it did before so this is
(09:03)  an example of an agent native application and this  is just like the very base level of an agent native application a very simple application  a very simple implementation of one where you have an agent inside of your application that can use  all of the tools inside your application so it can delete nodes it can create nodes on the canvas  it can edit documents here as well, and it can make changes  to any of the content of your documents and context.
(09:32)  It has context of your entire project  in this application, and the user could primarily interact with this app just through asking the  agent here to do all of the tasks in the app for you. That's an example of an agent-native  application. So if you are building software  using AI and you do want to build an application that's going to be a little bit more future-proof  and you're thinking about what is the next trend in technology that I can build software for  that isn't necessarily just a generic SaaS product, not that there's anything wrong with building
(10:00)  SaaS apps at all, then agent native and agent wrappers are kind of the way to think about  building the next generation of software. And I really think this is going to be a gigantic  opportunity over the course of the next three to five years in software. So I really think that  agent native software is going to be the way that a lot of new software companies emerge  over the next three to  five years.
(10:32)  We are only at the very beginning of what is possible with AI agents, with agents like  ClaudeCode, which are good at even non-coding tasks. They can do research, they work locally  on your computer, they can browse the web, use a bunch of different tools, use MCP and all of this  other functionality that basically empowers them  as a general purpose agent.
(10:52)  And Claude have released the agent SDK in 2025, which means  you can effectively wrap Claude code into a piece of software and give it the tools through your  application to be able to perform anything with AI. And so if you think about building software  from an agent first point of view,  rather than just a SaaS UI, which a human interacts with and giving an agent tools to be able to use  the software that you're building, and also thinking about how a user might interact directly  with an agent instead of interacting with a traditional UI, then you are going to be at the
(11:22)  forefront of software development moving into 2026 and beyond. 